**Date**: March 30th 2016  
**Time**: 9:00  
**Place**: Bio building
 

# Agenda #
- evaluation Carpentry week, plans for next year (?)
- next workshops
- workshop format (I already talked to some of you about whether we could try out half-day or 3/4-day workshops more regularly)
- meetups/software therapy/data therapy (‘beyond the workshop’)
- social outing with all instructors/helpers (fill out the doodle to help us plan it, check your email)

# Meeting Minutes #

## Attendees ##
 Lex Nederbragt, Karin Lagesen, Anne Fouilloux (in charge of writing the minutes), Michel Heeremans, Hugues Fontenelle, Carrie Andrew, Marius Bjørnstad, Halfdan Rydbeck, Vincent Manzanilla, Christian Wilhelm Mohr.


##Adoption of Agenda##

The agenda was adopted and a new item on github has been added at Michel's request.

## Carpentry Week: Evaluation and plans ##

### Evaluation ###

We all had very positive comments on the Carpentry week. More than 100 persons attended the workshops and we recruted new helpers and instructors.

A special thank to the Library who was fantastic (food, registration, coffee, stickers, etc.).

A meeting is planned on Wednesday 31th of March with the Library & Arnstein for an evaluation of the Carpentry week and planning for next events. 

Lex asked if an instructor from the Software Carpentry workshop and one from the Spatio-temporal Data arpentry workshop could attend it.


Anne said we poorly advertised the spatio-temporal Data Carpentry workshop: we initially advertised it as a Data Carpentry workshop for Geoscientists while using spatio-temporal data is not specific to geoscientists.

Lex also believes the reproducibility workshop was not well advertised too.

As an overall comment, we agreed to be more careful when we advertise Data Carpentry workshops and focus more on the lesson contents rather then on the Department organizer.

Several python issues with matplotlib were encountered during Software Carpentry workshop: several attendees could not import matplotlib even though they all installed python anaconda. Arvind has similar problems too.


Hugues mentionned the difficulties they had to get positive and negative inputs written on stickers: they asked for feedbacks at the end of each session but got very little feedbacks. Karin said that if it does not work with stickers, it can be done orally (Greg Wilson does it very often and it works very well according someone takes notes of the comments!). 

We also discussed how useful it would be to have the desktop machines prepared with software needed for the workshop. We will make a list of what should be installed, based on the setup page of the next workshop. The goal would be to liaise with IT-groups of each concerned departments and install all the required software on all the desktops & UIO laptops. Lex will follow-up on this at the meeting with the Library tomorrow.



#### Actions ####

- Halfdan & Anne will attend the meeting on the 31 of March (11am in the Science Library offices; Abel Hus).
- Halfdan to report the Software Carpentry issues with matplotlib on the Python lesson.
- Anne to ask Leah for the post-workshop feedbacks as the spatio-temporal workshop had NEON based pre and post-workshop questionnaires.
- Lex to discuss how to liaise with local IT-groups at the Carpentry meeting with the Library.

### Plan for next year ###

Lex presented the research bazaar (http://melbourne.resbaz.edu.au), an Australian campaign & community offering training and engagement community on Data storage & management, Research cloud, HPC (High Performance Computing). 

Lex believes that the extended training catalogue offered by ResBaz (The Research Bazaar) can give us a wider perspective than Software and Data Carpentry Community. Each year (first week of February) they organize a the Research Bazaar Conference with parallel sites all across the globe (https://feb2016.resbaz.com). 

We agreed that there is a great opportunity for Oslo to organize the "Carpentry week" under the Research bazaar umbrella for 2017.


#### Actions ####
Lex will contact the Research Bazaar to coordinate the next Carpentry week at UIO.

## Furture workshops this year ##

We initially planned three workshops:

- SW Unix, git R April 18th/19th 
- DC Bio/genomics May 9th and 10th
- SWC Unix, git, maybe R + python? June 20 21th.

We discussed our initial plans and made the following changes:

- Cancel the workshop in April
- Organize a UIO Carpentry R workshop on the 10th of May. Carrie will be the leader instructor and Christian will be teaching too. 
- We keep a Software Carpentry workshop in June (20/21 th of June) where we will teach Unix, git and maybe R and python in parallel on the second day.

We discussed again on how to advertise these workshops and we all agreed that they should be adverstised more than a month in advance.  

Halfdan said we would also send the Pre-workshop questionnaire in advance. For the last Software Carpentry workshop they got information the day before; a bit too late to adjust the lessons.

We discussed whether we should have the pre-workshop questionnaire with the registration and Karin clearly stated it was a bad idea as it would scare a lot of people (they have tried before!).
We therefore agreed to send the pre-workshop questionnaire two weeks before.

The procedure needs to be updated:


- Admin to generate links (with the workshop) for questionnaire. 
- The Library generates nettskjema for the registrations and questionnaires and the lead instructors got access. 

#### Actions ####

- Carrie to organize the one-day R workshop for the 10th of May. Both Carrie and Christian will look at the R materials on the Software Carpentry website and they will meet to decide on the content of R workshop. 
- Carrie is in charge of finding helpers (Anne said she can be a helper for this workshop)
- Lex will send an email to get a lead instructor for the 20/21th June Software Carpentry workshop
- Lex or Karin to update the UIO instructions for organizing a workshop at UIO.

## Workshop "format" ##

We have discussed the current Software & Data Carpentry workshop format (2 days workshops). 
We all agreed that it is still necessary to organise 2 days workshops few times a year, especially if we open our workshops to other Universities in Norway & other Nordic countries. At the same time, there is a clear need for shorter workshops (1/2 day or 1 full day only) where we could either introduce one subject or follow-up on Software Carpentry lessons. Some suggestions were given:

- one day on git where we discuss collaborative work (branching, conflict resolution, etc.)
- 1/2 day on Shell where we could teach the entire Software Carpentry Lesson
- 1/2 day on licensing (software and data license)
- 1/2 or 1 day introducing Python or R (could be useful for Data Carpentry follow-up workshops)
- 1/2 or 1 day Software Carpentry workshop for professors

Vincent also mentionned the interest of ForBio (http://www.forbio.uio.no) to develop a Software Carpentry workshop week. The ambition of Forbio is to train a new generation of biosystematists in the Nordic countries and as many PhDs are coming from abroad, it would be necessary to hold a full week rather than several 1/2 days or 1 day workshops. 

We discussed the possibility to participate more actively in Research school to train younger researchers (PhDs), master Students or even undergraduates. We all agreed there is a need to adapt Software Carpentry workshop "format".

The codata international Training Workshop format was discussed: they offer the possibility to build your own workshop with lessons chosen according to your needs. We all think we could use the same kind of format, with adequate information on the possible prerequisites for each session.


#### Actions ####
Vincent will follow-up with ForBio.


## Beyond workshops ##

We already discussed about the possiblity to organize some kind of informal follow-up to our Software & Data Carpentry workshops where attendees can meet up again.

Several ideas were given on what could be done:

- Software Therapy meeting (when attendees start to use what they have learnt and encounter problems: the objective would be to help them and move forward)
- Short session where a scientist would test the robustness of a developed scientific workflow: all the attendees of this session would try to effectively reproduce his/her work.

After some discussions, we decided to set-up a data therapy subgroup to discuss this matter. This subgroup will be free to decide how, when and what (subjects) to organize. However, it has been clearly noted that to be effective, it is necessary to give an agenda for the couple of months in advance to make sure we attract as many interested persons as possible.

#### Actions ####

Karin will set-up this subgroup and organize a meeting to discuss it. Vincent, Carrie and Anne already expressed their interests.

## git vs github ##


Michel asks for more training on github (not only on git) and also mentionned the necessity to train the trainers. 

On the github part, Lex said we could even develop a more github oriented lesson for git where the usage of command line would not be necessary.

About the necessity to train the trainers, we have started to write some documents on how to organize a workshop at UIO or on who can teach what and we think we should develop more UIO-based information.

The example of the Mozilla Science Lab website (http://www.mozillascience.org) was given and the idea of mentorships seems to be the way forward.

#### Actions ####

Lex will send some web links for github training and will follow up on the development of a github based lesson.

## Social outing ##

We are organizing a social outing with all instructors/helpers. Please make sure you fill out the doodle to help us plan it: http://doodle.com/poll/4qrza8dpv29bwsdr


#### Actions ####

Hugues to pick up a date and possibly find the place...


## Next meeting##

Wednesday 27 April 09:00 Geo building.

#### Actions ####

Michel is in charge of booking a room at Geology Building.
