**Date**: April 27th 2016  
**Time**: 9:00  
**Place**: Geo building
 

# Agenda #
- minutes and action points last meeting
- May/June workshops
- post-workshop evaluation form for non-SWC/DC workshops
- improving the [workshop operations checklists](https://github.com/uio-carpentry/organisational/blob/master/workshop_operations/checklists.md)
- Instructor Training workshop in Oslo June/July
- fall workshop planning
- meetups/software therapy/data therapy (‘beyond the workshop’)
- AOB
- next meeting

# Meeting Minutes #

## Attendees ##
Arvind Sundaram, Axel Rosén, Carrie Andrew,, Michel Heeremans, Lex Nederbragt, Anne Fouilloux (in charge of writing the minutes). John Burkhart came at the very end of the meeting to present himself in person.

##Adoption of Agenda##

The agenda was adopted and a new item "AOB" was added at the very end when John joined our meeting.

##Minutes and action points from last meeting##

- Issues with matplotlib on the Python lesson: Halfdan mentioned in an email that these issues should be reported by Arvind or Hugues as he was not present when it happened. **This issue is still pending**.

- Lex contacted the Research Bazaar: he is now included in their mailing list. **Action closed**.

- We still did not recieve the pre and post-workshop feedbacks for the spatio-temporal workshop (they were both managed by NEON). **Action is pending** and Anne to ask Leah again.

- Involvement of local IT-groups (to install SWC and DC software stack) has been mentioned during the Carpentry meeting with the Library. **The action is still opened** and a list of software will be defined after the next SWC workshop in June.

- 10th May one day workshop: Carrie and Christian met and discussed the content of the course. **Action is closed**.

- Lead Instructor for the 20/21th June SWC: Lex sent an email and Anne is the lead instructor. **Action is closed**.

- UIO instructions for organizing a workshop at UIO were reviewed (and used by both Carrie and Anne). **Action is closed**.

- Follow-up with ForBio: Vincent was not present. **Action is pending.**

- Beyond workshop: Karin has set-up a subgroup and organized a meeting to discuss it. **Action is closed**.

- Social Event: it was nice... **Action is closed**.

##May/June workshops##


The two Websites for the two next workshops are up and running.

###One-day R workshop (10th May)###
For the one-day workshop on R, Christian is currently updating the materials (mesh between Data Carpentry + Software Carpentry R lessons). For instance dplyr has been removed and subsetting is addressed in a much simpler way. 


So far we have 3 helpers: Unni Vik (postdoc with Carrie), Lex and Anne.

Around 26 signed up from:

- Cognitive Neuroscience, Psychology
- CEES
- FORMI, Institution for clinical medicine
- Medical Genetics Department
- Department of Chemistry
- Science Library
- CEES, IBV
- Head Engineer, Faculty of Medicine
- Institute for Cancer Research, Tumor Biology Department
- Psychology department
- Institutt for husdyr og akvakulturvitenskap
- Biosciences
- HF, ILOS
- Faculty of Education, Department of Teacher Education and School 
- Research
- Natural History Museum
- Teknisk-administrativt ansatt, Det samfunnsvitenskapelige fakultet
- Department of Oral Biology

###SWC Workshop (20/21st June): 

- Axel wish to teach too and asked if he could teach Lesson-2 and Lesson-3 for python. Hugues will teach the rest of the python lesson.

- We also wish to give Michel the opportunity to teach (as part of his instructor training): Michel will teach part of the Unix shell.

- Carrie and Anne will teach the R lessons.

- Lex will teach git.

- 14 persons signed up for this workshop. Only one signed up for one-day only.

- Wide range of people from very different background. We were all very pleased about it!


#### Actions ####

- Carrie will send an email with the list of sub-lessons.
- Lex will send an email to remind everybody to register: Early next week.
- Anne will send emails and get more helpers!


##post-workshop evaluation form for non-SWC/DC workshops##

The R workshop in May is a non-SWC workshop. This issue was not really discussed but having a simple evaluation form would be helpful. 

##improving the [workshop operations checklists](https://github.com/uio-carpentry/organisational/blob/master/workshop_operations/checklists.md)##

We discussed the current steps to set-up a workshop at the University of Oslo. A recurrent problem is related to the access to the list of attendees.

A way to solve it would be to get only one registration form (always active) and remove the persons when they attended a workshop. 

####Actions####
 
- Lex will set-up a meeting with the library to discuss (or through github).


##Instructor Training workshop in Oslo June/July##

An Instructor training workshop will be organized the first week of July in Oslo (and one in nederlands). 

Christina Koch, Lex and Karin will be instructors.

As part of our discussions, we all agreed to prioritize helpers and local people.
Then it will be opened to a wider communities (all Norwegian, Nordic Universities)

####Actions####

- All: Try to find who could attend in our network.
- All: we can all register to attend and refresh our knowledge!
- Lex will send an email for the registration as soon as possible.

##Fall workshop planning##

Fall workshop planning (+ data therapy):

- postponed it until June.

As part of our discussions, we thought we could organize in fall a small seminar/presentation (about 45 minutes) to explain what we do, what workshops we have planned, etc.


##meetups/software therapy/data therapy (‘beyond the workshop’)##

Data therapy subgroup will meet on Friday.  

Some important figures to take into account for the discussions:

- What is the best way to exchange and discuss: discussion list or facebook, twitter, forum, etc.

- we have about 30 instructors (organizers mailing list) that can potentially participate/teach/help to these Data Therapy.
- We have about 242 people registered to our discussion mailing list.
- So in total we have about 292 persons (attendees workshop + instructors)

#### Actions ####
- The summary and minutes of the subgroup meeting will be sent separately.

##AOB##

John Burkhart (Professor at the Geosciences Department, in the Geography and Hydrology group) came at the very end of the meeting to present himself in person. He is very interested by the Software & Data Carpentry activities: we discussed about the possibilities to include Software Carpentry as part of masters programs. Lex is very reluctant in making these types of courses mandatory but at the same time recognizes the usefulness for master students to get such core and practical computer skills.

#### Actions ####

- Lex & John to discuss it and see how it can be tackled.

##next meeting##
13th June 09:00 Informatics (Axel) 

##Action points:
